DECISIONS.md, before:

# Package decisions

## Decision
Regarding the ideation below, we ended up going with the following workflow using a mixed Python and JavaScript approach:
1. User provides 2 datasets and alpha.
1. In JS, create a DOM.
1. Load the allotaxonometer plot template into the DOM.
1. Calculate data for the plot and add that data to each plot's svg.
1. Serialize results to a HTML, save file.
1. Intercept this result in Python with `subprocess`.
1. Library generates a static image file from the HTML.


## Design

### Goals
1. User accessibility for the use case of integrating the graphing method in computational research.
    - This goal means ease of ease of use and ease of installation into their environment.
    - **We agree this is the main goal of the project.**
1. Maintainability
    - It is easy to make updates to the code, hopefully from its main `npm` package.
    - One realism we already foresee is that the `npm` package exists to be extensible for use cases beyond the current one--the current use case requires some tailoring to intercept the graph `svg` and save it to a file, potentially meaning we store a version of the package in this repo to make adjustments for serverless graph creation.
1. Performance
    - The graphing method runs headlessly and should be able to handle large data sets as well as be integrated into larger analyses, pipelines, parallel processing, etc.

### Options for design
1. Write the package all in JavaScript.
    - Pro: we wouldn't need to manage disparate ecosystems (Python and JavaScript).
    - Con: this route doesn't as readily acheve goal 1 as installation of of multiple environments can be a major blocker to users.
1. Write the package in Python.
    - Pro: achieves goal 1 of ease of use
    - Con: may make goal 1 of ease of installation still difficult.
- Add-on options to consider:
    1. Include any node.js library binaries in the Python library to negate a `npm` and `node.js` environment for users (assumption: ease of installation comes from Python installation being the only dependency). The difficulty with this route is that binaries for multiple OSs should be included.
        - ** We want to attempt this route first to abstract away JS ecosystem.**
    1. Make a set-up/install script so the user does not need to worry about the installation of `node`, `npm`, and packages.
    1. User Docker containers to manage the environment.
        - Pro: this would make the environment easy and consistent across all users. Users would only need to worry about a Docker installation.
            - Good option down the line.
        - Con: this is a current barrier to devs (learning and time to commit to this project)--but otherwise surmountable on the learning front.
- HTML to image options: this has to be lightweight; many options open a headless browser reliant on a browser driver (e.g. selenium uses the Chrome driver) which takes a few seconds per conversion. (see posted issue for follow-up on this separately).


## Future improvements (TODOs):
1. Continue improving the ecosystem dependencies to streamline ease of installation.
1. Extend methods to include the ability to get computed ranks and other variables of interest (data that is generated for the creation of the graph but not returned anywhere).
1. Write up some examples, including a use case for big data using multiprocessing locally.

Commit message:

massively updates documentation across the repo

DECISIONS.md, after:

# Package decisions

## Decision
Regarding the ideation below, we ended up going with the following workflow using a mixed Python and JavaScript approach:
1. User provides 2 datasets and alpha.
1. In JS, create a DOM.
1. Load the allotaxonometer html plot template into the DOM.
1. Calculate data for the plot and add that data to each plot's svg.
1. Serialize results to a HTML.
1. Intercept this result in Python with `subprocess`.
1. Library saves the HTML to a file (user input can opt to end processing here).
1. Library generates a static image file from the HTML.


## Design

### Goals
1. Main goal: User accessibility for the use case of integrating the graphing method in computational research.
    - This goal means ease of ease of use and ease of installation into their environment.
1. Maintainability
    - It is easy to make updates to the code, hopefully from its main `npm` package.
    - One realism we're already dealing with is a custom branch of the main `allotaxonometer` library that enables minor customization to facilitate the Python integration.
1. Performance
    - The rendering and format conversion method runs headlessly; it should be able to handle large data sets and be integrated into larger analyses or many runs, pipelines, parallel processing, etc.

### Design thoughts considered
1. Write the package only in JavaScript.
    - Pro: we wouldn't need to manage disparate ecosystems (Python and JavaScript).
    - Con: this route doesn't as readily acheve goal 1, as we presume scientific users would need to install an unfamiliar ecosystem.
1. Write the package in Python (while utilizing the `npm` library).
    - Pro: achieves goal 1 of ease of use
    - Con: may make goal 1 of ease of installation still difficult. We will perform early user testing to see how much of a barrier this is--noting this is an early version of the tool.
    - Add-on options to consider:
        1. Include any node.js library binaries in the Python library to negate a `npm` and `node.js` environment for users (assumption: ease of installation comes from Python installation being the only dependency). The difficulty with this route is that binaries for multiple OSs should be included.
            - **We want to attempt this route first to abstract away JS ecosystem.**
        1. Make a set-up/install script so the user does not need to worry about the installation of `node`, `npm`, and packages.
1. Containerize `py-allotax` to manage the environment.
    - Pro: this would make the environment easy and consistent across all users. Users would only need to worry about a Docker installation.
    - Con: user testing needed for accessibility goal; also unclear how much maintainability would be affected while the py-allotax's `allotaxonometer` library remains a branch of the main library.

 ### HTML to image options

 This has to be lightweight; many options open a headless browser reliant on a browser driver (e.g. selenium uses the Chrome driver) which takes a few seconds per conversion (see posted issue for follow-up on this separately). We explored numerous options that do not seem possible, so this area remains a task anyone is free to take on. Specifically, we tried `pandoc`, `weasyprint`, node.js `html-to-pdf`, and a less restrictive DOM `linkedom`.
 - `pandoc`: would have been a good option but had many texlive (latex universe) and system dependencies that ultimately did not work out.
 - `weasyprint`: we think it could work but may require some tinkering with the CSS elements in the HTML plot template. Library logging showed weasyprint fails to render SVG image and an option wasn't apparent.
 - `linkedom`: As with the current DOM (`jsdom`), a richer browser was required (headless browser to render styles and flexboxes), making `html-to-pdf` a non-option.

## Future improvements (TODOs):
1. Continue improving the ecosystem dependencies (or automation of set-up) to streamline ease of installation.
1. Extend methods:
    - ability to get computed ranks and other variables of interest (data that is generated for the creation of the graph but not returned anywhere).
    - ability to retrieve intermediate desired results to analyze or visualize in other tools.
1. Write up some examples, including a use case for big data using multiprocessing locally.
1. Improve or add more HTML to image conversion method(s).
